<!--
This file is autogenerated! Do not edit by hand!
Run `nbictl readme > README.md` to update it.
-->

# NAME

nbictl - Interact with the Spacetime NBI service from the command line.

# SYNOPSIS

```
nbictl [--profile=value] [--context=value] [--config_dir=value] [--help] [-h] [--version] [-v] <command> [COMMAND OPTIONS] [ARGUMENTS...]
```

# GLOBAL OPTIONS

**--config_dir**="": Directory to use for configuration. (default: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nbictl)

**--help, -h**: show help

**--profile, --context**="": Configuration profile to use.

**--version, -v**: print the version

# COMMANDS

## get

Gets the entity with the given type and ID.

**--id**="": [REQUIRED] ID of entity to delete.

**--type, -t**="": [REQUIRED] Type of entity to delete. Allowed values: [ANTENNA_PATTERN, BAND_PROFILE, COMPUTED_MOTION, DEVICES_IN_REGION, INTENT, INTERFACE_LINK_REPORT, INTERFERENCE_CONSTRAINT, NETWORK_NODE, NETWORK_STATS_REPORT, PLATFORM_DEFINITION, SERVICE_REQUEST, STATION_SET, SURFACE_REGION, TRANSCEIVER_LINK_REPORT]

## create

Create one or more entities described in textproto files.

**--files, -f**="": [REQUIRED] Glob of textproto files that represent one or more Entity messages.

## edit

Opens the specified entity as a textproto in $EDITOR, then updates the NBI's version with any updates made.

**--id**="": [REQUIRED] ID of entity to edit.

**--type, -t**="": [REQUIRED] Type of entity to edit. Allowed values: [ANTENNA_PATTERN, BAND_PROFILE, COMPUTED_MOTION, DEVICES_IN_REGION, INTENT, INTERFACE_LINK_REPORT, INTERFERENCE_CONSTRAINT, NETWORK_NODE, NETWORK_STATS_REPORT, PLATFORM_DEFINITION, SERVICE_REQUEST, STATION_SET, SURFACE_REGION, TRANSCEIVER_LINK_REPORT]

## update

Updates, or creates if missing, one or more entities described in textproto files.

**--files, -f**="": [REQUIRED] Glob of textproto files that represent one or more Entity messages.

**--ignore_consistency_check**: Always update or create the entity, without verifying that the provided `commit_timestamp` matches the currently stored entity.

## list

Lists all entities of a given type.

**--field_masks**="": Comma-separated allow-list of fields to include in the response; see the aalyria.spacetime.api.nbi.v1alpha.EntityFilter.field_masks documentation for usage details.

**--type, -t**="": [REQUIRED] Type of entities to query. Allowed values: [ANTENNA_PATTERN, BAND_PROFILE, COMPUTED_MOTION, DEVICES_IN_REGION, INTENT, INTERFACE_LINK_REPORT, INTERFERENCE_CONSTRAINT, NETWORK_NODE, NETWORK_STATS_REPORT, PLATFORM_DEFINITION, SERVICE_REQUEST, STATION_SET, SURFACE_REGION, TRANSCEIVER_LINK_REPORT]

## delete

Deletes one or more entities. Provide the type and ID to delete a single entity, or a directory of Entity textproto files to delete multiple entities.

**--files, -f**="": Glob of textproto files that represent one or more Entity messages.

**--id**="": ID of entity to delete.

**--ignore_consistency_check**: Always update or create the entity, without verifying that the provided `commit_timestamp` matches the value in the currently stored entity.

**--last_commit_timestamp**="": Delete the entity only if `last_commit_timestamp` matches the `commit_timestamp` of the currently stored entity. (default: 0)

**--type, -t**="": Type of entity to delete. Allowed values: [ANTENNA_PATTERN, BAND_PROFILE, COMPUTED_MOTION, DEVICES_IN_REGION, INTENT, INTERFACE_LINK_REPORT, INTERFERENCE_CONSTRAINT, NETWORK_NODE, NETWORK_STATS_REPORT, PLATFORM_DEFINITION, SERVICE_REQUEST, STATION_SET, SURFACE_REGION, TRANSCEIVER_LINK_REPORT]

## get-link-budget

Gets link budget details

**--analysis_end_timestamp**="": An RFC3339 formatted timestamp for the end of the interval to evaluate the signal propagation. If unset, the signal propagation is evaluated at the instant of the `analysis_start_timestamp.`

**--analysis_start_timestamp**="": An RFC3339 formatted timestamp for the beginning of the interval to evaluate the signal propagation. Defaults to the current local timestamp.

**--band_profile_id**="": The Entity ID of the BandProfile used for this link.

**--explain_inaccessibility**: If true, the server will spend additional computational time determining the specific set of access constraints that were not satisfied and including these reasons in the response.

**--input_file**="": A path to a textproto file containing a SignalPropagationRequest message. If set, it will be used as the request to the SignalPropagation service. If unset, the request will be built from the other flags.

**--output_file**="": Path to a textproto file to write the response. If unset, defaults to stdout. (default: /dev/stdout)

**--reference_data_timestamp**="": An RFC3339 formatted timestamp for the instant at which to reference the versions of the platforms. Defaults to `analysis_start_timestamp`. (default: analysis_start_timestamp)

**--spatial_propagation_step_size**="": The analysis step size for spatial propagation metrics. (default: 1m)

**--step_size**="": The analysis step size and the temporal resolution of the response. (default: 1m)

**--target_platform_id**="": The Entity ID of the PlatformDefinition that represents the target. Leave unset if the antenna is fixed or non-steerable, in which case coverage calculations will be returned.

**--target_transceiver_model_id**="": The ID of the transceiver model on the target.Leave unset if the antenna is fixed or non-steerable, in which case coverage calculations will be returned.

**--tx_platform_id**="": The Entity ID of the PlatformDefinition that represents the transmitter.

**--tx_transceiver_model_id**="": The ID of the transceiver model on the transmitter.

## generate-keys

Generate RSA keys to use for authentication with the Spacetime APIs.

>After creating the Private-Public keypair, you will need to request API access by sharing the `.crt` file (a self-signed x509 certificate containing the public key) with Aalyria to receive the `USER_ID` and a `KEY_ID` needed to complete the nbictl configuration. Only share the public certificate (`.crt`) with Aalyria or third-parties. The private key (`.key`) must be protected and should never be sent by email or communicated to others.

**--country**="": Country of certificate.

**--dir, --directory**="": Directory to store the generated RSA keys in. (default: ~/.config/nbictl/keys)

**--location**="": Location of certificate.

**--org, --organization**="": [REQUIRED] Organization of certificate.

**--state**="": State of certificate.

## config

Provides subcommands for managing nbictl configuration.

### list-profiles

List all configuration profiles (ignores any `--profile` flag)

### describe

Prints the NBI connection settings associated with the configuration profile given by the `--profile` flag (defaults to "DEFAULT").

### set

Sets or updates a configuration profile settings. You can create multiple profiles by specifying the `--profile` flag (defaults to "DEFAULT").

**--key_id**="": Key ID associated with the private key provided by Aalyria.

**--priv_key**="": Path to the private key to use for authentication.

**--transport_security**="": Transport security to use when connecting to the NBI service. Allowed values: [insecure, system_cert_pool]

**--url**="": NBI endpoint specified as `host[:port]` (port is optional and defaults to 443).

**--user_id**="": User ID associated with the private key provided by Aalyria.

## model-v1alpha, model

Subcommands for Model API v1alpha, to manage the model elements comprising the digital twin.

### upsert-entity

Upsert the model NMTS Entity contained within the file provided on the command line ('-' reads from stdin).

### update-entity

Update the model using NMTS PartialEntity contained within the file provided on the command line ('-' reads from stdin).

### delete-entity

Delete the model NMTS Entity associated with the entity ID provided on the command line, along with any relationships in which it participates.

### get-entity

Get the model NMTS Entity associated with the entity ID given on the command line.

### insert-relationship

Insert the model NMTS Relationship contained within the file provided on the command line ('-' reads from stdin).

### delete-relationship

Delete the model NMTS Relationship contained within the file provided on the command line ('-' reads from stdin).

### upsert-fragment

Upsert the model NMTS Fragment contained within the file provided on the command line ('-' reads from stdin).

### list-elements

List all model elements (NMTS Entities and Relationships).

## grpcurl

Provides curl-like equivalents for interacting with the NBI.

### describe

Takes an optional fully-qualified symbol (service, enum, or message). If provided, the descriptor for that symbol is shown. If not provided, the descriptor for all exposed or known services are shown.

### list

Takes an optional fully-qualified service name. If provided, lists all methods of that service. If not provided, all exposed services are listed.

### call, invoke

Takes a fully-qualified method name in 'service.method' or 'service/method' format. Invokes the method using the provided request body.

**--format, -f**="": Protobuf format to use for input and output. Allowed values: [text, json] (default: json)

**--request, -r**="": File containing the request to make encoded in the selected --format. Defaults to -, which uses stdin. (default: -)

## generate-auth-token

Generate a self-signed JWT token for API authentication.

**--audience, --aud**="": The audience (aud) to set in the JWT token.

**--expiration, --exp**="": The validity duration of token, from the time of creation. (default: 1h)

## help, h

Shows a list of commands or help for one command

